---
title: "Capistrano for non-rails sites"
date: 2013-07-08
#hero: /images/posts/hero-coding.png
menu:
  sidebar:
    name: "Capistrano for non-rails sites"
    identifier: capistrano-for-non-rails-sites
    weight: -20
tags: [travis]
---

<p>
I've been using capistrano for Rails and really impressed by how easy it makes deployment and rolllback. Sometimes though I need this type of automation on non-rails work. This type of automation can include setting up a vhost in Apache as well as Travis CI work. I know Chef-solo might be best for this but since I am already in Capistrano I might as well push it a little more.
</p>
<p>
To use this on a static page I am building all I had to do, after making sure Ruby was installed of course was install the gem 
<a herf=https://github.com/leehambley/railsless-deploy/>railsless-deploy</a>. 
</p>
<p>
After I did that install I ran "capify ." in the folder I was working on.
</p>
<p>
From there I edited the file Capify in the root of the folder so, as noted on the page above, it required this gem.
</p>
<p>
In my case all I needed was a simple apache_vhost recipe and template to store the configurations using dynamic variables so I can use this on other sites quite easily. As well as updating the deploy.rb. You can see those in a github gist <a href="#">here</a> and below.
<br>
Also your folder layout will look like this
<br>
/<br>
/Capfile<br>
/config<br>
/config/deploy.rb<br>
/config/recipes/base.rb<br>
/config/recipes/apachevhost.rb<br>
/config/recipes/templates/apache_vhost.erb<br>
</br>
<script src="https://gist.github.com/alnutile/5947574.js"></script>
</p>
<p>
Thanks to the RailsCast episode <a href=http://railscasts.com/episodes/337-capistrano-recipes>#337</a> I shown also the trick to setup a base config file to add some shared methods. 
</p>
<p>
One odd error before I could get this to work was to make an empty Gemfile in the root of the folder and run <br>
bundle install
</br>
Even though I assumed the railsless gem would do that.  But I posted this question on their github page and will see what I was missing.
<br>
Finally I ran <br>
</br>
cap deploy:install<br>
cap deploy:setup<br>
cap deploy:cold
</p>
<p>
At this point Apache is set, the folders are set and the site can be accessed. And with all new pushes I just run cap deploy to update the server with the latest work from github "master"
</p>
<p>
The next steps will be to integrate this into Travis CI to test and deploy via the github/git webhook feature.
</p>