---
title: "Javascript Based Product Viewer"
date: 2013-03-22
#hero: /images/posts/hero-coding.png
menu:
  sidebar:
    name: "Javascript Based Product Viewer"
    identifier: javascript--based--product--viewer
    weight: -6
tags: [REST]
---

Due to NDA limitations I had to remove links to the final product
Latest Project Virtual Design Tool. [ url removed due to nda issues ) -: ]Some points that were fun, new, and
challenging.<ol><li>Model, View, Controller mindet.</li><li>Building the
RESTful service/API first</li><li>Trying to follow a feature driven development
plan.</li><li>Having smaller tasks and more points of QA</li><li>Having smaller
points to check in with the client to review the finished tasks and not wait
till the "end".</li><li>Make it modular so it would work just as well
outside of the site as in.</li><li>Verbally breaking up the Classes, functions
and overall code used to make the App.&nbsp;</li><li>NaturalDocs documentation
tool and syntax</li><li>JetBrain IDE</li></ol>I have been trying to learn the
Model View Controller structure to code in. Since we are working with drupal it
seems to be a tough fit. Basically drupal becomes possible via some custom code
with a RESTful API. It's menu router offering one point of access for
anonymous level data (right now just read only). <br><br>From there the work was making
the <b>Models</b> to deliver back to the <b>Controller</b> the data requested. The App calls
to this end point with requests. The App then has a <b>View</b> that receives the
Model's data and outputs it on the page. MVC is still quite new to me. Mix
this with OOP and you get a lot of new ways of thinking in one project. So it
was a good start but not perfect.<br><span><br>We learned from our last project and 100
projects before that the endless issues with “Big Up Front Design”
[“Because any big design created in advance of working software cannot be
correct” <a href="https://kindle.amazon.com/work/practical-object-oriented-
esign-ruby-ebook/B0096GEQUE/B0096BYG7C" target="" rel="">Practical Object-Oriented Design in
Ruby: An Agile Primer (Addison-Wesley Professional Ruby Series)</a>&nbsp;by
Sandi Metz] also not having enough small measurable pieces to review with the
client, ie Agile.</span><blockquote><span>“Because any big design created in
advance of working software cannot be correct”&nbsp;<a href="https://kindle
amazon.com/work/practical-object-oriented-design-ruby-ebook/
0096GEQUE/B0096BYG7C" target="" rel="">Practical Object-Oriented Design in Ruby: An Agile Primer
(Addison-Wesley Professional Ruby Series)</a>&nbsp;by Sandi
Metz</span></blockquote><span><br>This smaller project we took time to break up the scope
into numerous tasks grouped in a Feature. That feature/interaction was then
placed inside a Burn Down chart to help track progress. [Great info here <a href="http://joel.inpointform.net/software-development/burn-down-charts-tutorial-" target="" rel="">http://joel.inpointform.net/software-development/b
rn-down-charts-tutorial-simple-agile-project-tracking/</a>]</span>Each task was smaller than 2 days. We initially played
quoting poker as an office to guesstimate the tasks lengths. Many of the tasks
ended up being small modular functional parts of the whole we that could QA
internally or show to the client. For example the full product looks like
this. [photo removed per NDA]&nbsp;But the work was broken up into
smaller pieces as such&nbsp;Shapes
BarOrientation Bar&nbsp;[photo removed per NDA]<b>&nbsp;</b>Texture and Colors
bar window where images wrap out. etc. &nbsp;Small chunks that we could make
focused css and javascript around.&nbsp;<br><br>Then we took a full day, 2 coders, to
outline on paper, white board etc how to build the App. This was tough since it
seems anti-productive. But mix this with writing tests, documentation and it was
easier to be more precise about what was being built. The other goal here was to
make it very modular. Ideally it could work outside of the website css and
all.&nbsp;<a href="https://kindle.amazon.com/work/scalable-modular-architecture-c
s-ebook/B006FOFNAW/B006EQBPMG" target="" rel="">Scalable and Modular Architecture for
CSS</a>&nbsp;[photo removed per NDA]&nbsp;<br><br>On a side note one of the
cool things about the App is how the effect is made.&nbsp;There is really only
one large swatch image and then a set of transparent orientations per
Shape. &nbsp;The initial load of the page
only pulls down the default Shape's set eg 4 orientations. &nbsp;When
you click a Shape the new set is pulled from a stored result in the jQuery.data
object which was stashed there via the initial delivery of the JSON data. There
is no new pull from the server till you click a new Texture. This was one
possible way to reduce the image lag and download that can happen with a large
set of image..[photo removed per NDA]&nbsp;<span>was a good way to document the code but I am
starting to agree with some of the books I am reading that good code should read
like a book and not need comments and docs [Clean Code: A Handbook of Agile
Software Craftsmanship&nbsp;by Robert C.
Martin <a href="http://www.amazon.com/dp/B001GSTOAM/ref=r_soa_w_d" target="" rel="">http://www.amazon.com/dp/B001GSTOAM/ref=r_soa_w_d</a> ]. </span>Opening notes or a readme to get help the
coder know the purpose of the file but the rest should be found in the names of
the Classes and Methods and just well broken out code.<br><span><br>Finally I
used an IDE other than Coda. I am running Ubuntu now and just wanted to try and
IDE that could do a ton more than Coda. Simple tools like Textmate or Sublime
peak my interest as well but so far the IDE from these people was really good <a href="http://www.jetbrains.com/" target="" rel="">http://www.jetbrains.com/</a>. I like how it
had jshint built in, integration to git that was “better” than Coda.
Sure the command line is great for git but there gui was not bad at times to
have as well. It was not slow at all, my Core 2 Duo on an SSD never seemed
slow.</span>